documentation/meta/documentation/quickstart.md, before:

# Quickstart guide

This is the quick start guide for setting up and running the documentation
locally.

## Prerequisites

Refer to the [general setup guide](/general/general_setup.md) for setting up the
prerequisites. Refer to the 'Docs' column in the
[requirement matrix](/general/general_setup.md#requirement-matrix) to know what
you need to run this.

## Starting up

1. Ensure you download, install and set up all prerequisites.

2. Clone the repository to your computer. Then switch to the cloned directory.
   If you're planning to contribute, fork the repo and clone your fork instead.

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/WordPress/openverse.git # or your fork
   cd openverse/
   ```

   If you followed the general setup guide and installed
   [GitHub CLI](/general/general_setup.md#github-cli), you can clone more simply
   using the `gh` command.

   ```bash
   gh repo clone WordPress/openverse # or your fork
   cd openverse/
   ```

3. Install only the Python dependencies. You do not need to install any Node.js
   dependencies to run the documentation.

   ```bash
   just documentation/install
   ```

4. Run the documentation live server. Once this is done, you should be able to
   see the documentation on [http://127.0.0.1:50230](http://127.0.0.1:50230).

   ```bash
   just documentation/live
   ```

   ````{admonition} Troubleshooting
   Sometimes, the documentation does not refresh to reflect changes in the table
   of contents or changes to the file system. In those cases, you can clean the
   caches and restart the live server.

   ```bash
   just documentation/clean
   just documentation/live
   ```
   ````

## Shutting down

You can press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd> to terminate the documentation live
server.

Commit message:

Update docs to recommend blobless cloning strategy (#4432)

documentation/meta/documentation/quickstart.md, after:

# Quickstart guide

This is the quick start guide for setting up and running the documentation
locally.

## Prerequisites

Refer to the [general setup guide](/general/general_setup.md) for setting up the
prerequisites. Refer to the 'Docs' column in the
[requirement matrix](/general/general_setup.md#requirement-matrix) to know what
you need to run this.

## Starting up

1. Ensure you download, install and set up all prerequisites.

2. Clone the repository to your computer. Then switch to the cloned directory.
   If you're planning to contribute, fork the repo and clone your fork instead.

   ```{note}
   We recommend cloning with the `--filter=blob:none` flag as it dramatically
   reduces the filesize and download time by creating a "blobless clone".
   You can learn more about these [here](https://gist.github.com/leereilly/1f4ea46a01618b6e34ead76f75d0784b).
   ```

   ```bash
   git clone --filter=blob:none https://github.com/WordPress/openverse.git # or your fork
   cd openverse/
   ```

   If you followed the general setup guide and installed
   [GitHub CLI](/general/general_setup.md#github-cli), you can clone more simply
   using the `gh` command.

   ```bash
   gh repo clone WordPress/openverse -- --filter=blob:none  # or your fork
   cd openverse/
   ```

3. Install only the Python dependencies. You do not need to install any Node.js
   dependencies to run the documentation.

   ```bash
   just documentation/install
   ```

4. Run the documentation live server. Once this is done, you should be able to
   see the documentation on [http://127.0.0.1:50230](http://127.0.0.1:50230).

   ```bash
   just documentation/live
   ```

   ````{admonition} Troubleshooting
   Sometimes, the documentation does not refresh to reflect changes in the table
   of contents or changes to the file system. In those cases, you can clean the
   caches and restart the live server.

   ```bash
   just documentation/clean
   just documentation/live
   ```
   ````

## Shutting down

You can press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd> to terminate the documentation live
server.
