documentation/frontend/reference/i18n.md, before:

# Internationalization

The frontend uses Nuxt's [i18n module](https://i18n.nuxtjs.org/) to support
[internationalization](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/I18N),
enabling localization of the user interface.

WordPress uses GlotPress for managing translations, which is built on top of the
[`gettext` standard](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/). On the other hand,
Nuxt (and most JS-based i18n libraries) use
[JSON](https://kazupon.github.io/vue-i18n/guide/formatting.html) for managing
translations. This disconnect means that Openverse translations must convert
from JSON to POT and back again. Hence there is quite a bit of scaffolding
involved.

## Upload pipeline

This pipeline deals with how translations strings are extracted from the
frontend application and provided to GlotPress for translation.

### Steps

- Create a POT file from the `en.json5` file.

  **Script:** `i18n:generate-pot`

- Upload this
  [POT file](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/translations/openverse.pot)
  to a fixed URL. Currently the file is hosted in the `translations` branch of
  the [WordPress/openverse](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse) repo.

- GlotPress presents the strings, fuzzy translations and other helpful context
  to translators in a web UI to help them provide a translation.

## Download pipeline

This pipeline deals with how translations are retrieved from GlotPress,
processed and loaded into Nuxt via the Nuxt i18n module.

### Steps

- Parse and extract the list of all locales from GlotPress's PHP source code.
  Then narrow down the list to locales available in the WP GlotPress instance
  and populate their coverage percentage from the
  [GlotPress stats](https://translate.wordpress.org/projects/meta/openverse/).

  The output is written to `wp-locales.json`.

  **Script:** `i18n:create-locales-list`

- Download all translations from GlotPress as JED 1.x JSON files. The flattened
  JED 1.x (derived from the flattened POT files) files are converted back into
  the nested JSON as expected by Nuxt i18n.

  This script uses the `wp-locales.json` file for the list of locales, if
  downloading each locale separately and in parallel.

  **Script:** `i18n:get-translations`

- Separate the locales into three groups based on the JSON files emitted by
  `i18n:get-translations`.

  - **translated:** JSON file is present with mappings, written to
    `valid-locales.json`.
  - **untranslated:** JSON file is present but empty, written to both
    `valid-locales.json` and `untranslated-locales.json`.
  - **invalid:** JSON file is not present, written to `invalid-locales.json`.

  **Script:** `i18n:update-locales`

- Pass the list of valid locales (along with extra fields) into the Nuxt i18n
  module. This is configured in the Nuxt configuration file, `nuxt.config.ts`.

- Pass the fallback locale mappings to the underlying Vue i18n plugin. This is
  configured in the plugin configuration file,
  `frontend/src/plugins/vue-i18n.ts`.

Commit message:

Document the overview of the bulk download process

documentation/frontend/reference/i18n.md, after:

# Internationalization

The frontend uses Nuxt's [i18n module](https://i18n.nuxtjs.org/) to support
[internationalization](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/I18N),
enabling localization of the user interface.

WordPress uses GlotPress for managing translations, which is built on top of the
[`gettext` standard](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/). On the other hand,
Nuxt (and most JS-based i18n libraries) use
[JSON](https://kazupon.github.io/vue-i18n/guide/formatting.html) for managing
translations. This disconnect means that Openverse translations must convert
from JSON to POT and back again. Hence there is quite a bit of scaffolding
involved.

## Upload pipeline

This pipeline deals with how translations strings are extracted from the
frontend application and provided to GlotPress for translation.

### Steps

- Create a POT file from the `en.json5` file.

  **Script:** `i18n:generate-pot`

- Upload this
  [POT file](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/translations/openverse.pot)
  to a fixed URL. Currently the file is hosted in the `translations` branch of
  the [WordPress/openverse](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse) repo.

- GlotPress presents the strings, fuzzy translations and other helpful context
  to translators in a web UI to help them provide a translation.

## Download pipeline

This pipeline deals with how translations are retrieved from GlotPress,
processed and loaded into Nuxt via the Nuxt i18n module.

### Steps

- Parse and extract the list of all locales from GlotPress's PHP source code.
  Then narrow down the list to locales available in the WP GlotPress instance
  and populate their coverage percentage from the
  [GlotPress stats](https://translate.wordpress.org/projects/meta/openverse/).

  The output is written to `wp-locales.json`.

  **Script:** `i18n:create-locales-list`

- Download all translations from GlotPress as JED 1.x JSON files. The flattened
  JED 1.x (derived from the flattened POT files) files are converted back into
  the nested JSON as expected by Nuxt i18n.

  This script downloads all available translations in bulk as a ZIP file and
  then extracts JSON files from the ZIP file. This prevents excessive calls to
  GlotPress, which can be throttled and cause some locales to be missed.

  **Script:** `i18n:get-translations`

- Separate the locales into three groups based on the JSON files emitted by
  `i18n:get-translations`.

  - **translated:** JSON file is present with mappings, written to
    `valid-locales.json`.
  - **untranslated:** JSON file is present but empty, written to both
    `valid-locales.json` and `untranslated-locales.json`.
  - **invalid:** JSON file is not present, written to `invalid-locales.json`.

  **Script:** `i18n:update-locales`

- Pass the list of valid locales (along with extra fields) into the Nuxt i18n
  module. This is configured in the Nuxt configuration file, `nuxt.config.ts`.

- Pass the fallback locale mappings to the underlying Vue i18n plugin. This is
  configured in the plugin configuration file,
  `frontend/src/plugins/vue-i18n.ts`.
