documentation/projects/proposals/rekognition_data/20240423-implementation_plan_machine_generated_tags_api.md, before:

# 2024-04-23 Implementation Plan: Machine-generated tags in the API

**Author**: @AetherUnbound

<!-- See the implementation plan guide for more information: https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/tree/19791f51c063d0979112f4b9f4eeace04c8cf5ff/docs/projects#implementation-plans-status-in-rfc -->
<!-- This template is exhaustive and may include sections which aren't relevant to your project. Feel free to remove any sections which would not be useful to have. -->

## Reviewers

<!-- Choose two people at your discretion who make sense to review this based on their existing expertise. Check in to make sure folks aren't currently reviewing more than one other proposal or RFC. -->

- [ ] @krysal
- [ ] @obulat

## Project links

<!-- Enumerate any references to other documents/pages, including milestones and other plans -->

- [Project Thread](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/issues/431)
- [Project Proposal](/projects/proposals/rekognition_data/20240320-project_proposal_rekognition_data.md)

[parse_tags_logic]:
  https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/df57ab3eb6586502995d6fa70cf417352ec68402/ingestion_server/ingestion_server/elasticsearch_models.py#L196-L206

## Overview

<!-- An overview of the implementation plan, if necessary. Save any specific steps for the section(s) below. -->

The project proposal linked above endeavors to add a new set of
machine-generated tags to our catalog database as its end goal, however we
[already have records in our dataset that include machine-generated tags](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/pull/3948#discussion_r1552301581).
Nothing currently exists to distinguish these tags from creator-generated ones,
except for the presence of an `accuracy` value alongside the tag name.

This implementation plan will describe how we plan on conveying
machine-generated tags in the API, and also how they will be handled when
searches are made in Elasticsearch. It will not cover the semantics of the
actual labels (i.e. which machine-generated labels to retain or discard), as
that is the purview of #4040.

## Expected Outcomes

<!-- List any succinct expected products from this implementation plan. -->

When this work is completed, it is expected that we will be able to clearly
distinguish which tags returned by the API are machine-generated and where those
tags came from. We will also have a clearly documented approach for handling
duplicate tags and how this affects search results.

## Step-by-step plan

<!--
List the ordered steps of the plan in the form of imperative-tone issue titles.

The goal of this section is to give a high-level view of the order of implementation any relationships like
blockages or other dependencies that exist between steps of the plan. Link each step to the step description
in the following section.

If special deployments are required between steps, explicitly note them here. Additionally, highlight key
milestones like when a feature flag could be made available in a particular environment.
-->

The implementation of this work involves two primary pieces:

1. [Expose provider information for each tag within the results](#expose-provider-in-tags)
2. [Apply modifications (if necessary) to the Elasticsearch document scoring](#modify-elasticsearch-document-scoring)

## Step details

<!--
Describe all of the implementation steps listed in the "step-by-step plan" in detail.

For each step description, ensure the heading includes an obvious reference to the step as described in the
"step-by-step plan" section above.
-->

### Expose provider in tags

This step will be straightforward, as the provider information for tags already
exists in the API database. In order to have them show up in the API results, we
would need to modify the
[`TagSerializer`](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/3ed38fc4b138af2f6ac03fcc065ec633d6905d73/api/api/serializers/media_serializers.py#L442)
to include an `unstable__provider` field as well. This would change the returned
`tags` entry for a result from:

```json
[
  {
    "name": "businesscard",
    "accuracy": null
  },
  {
    "name": "design",
    "accuracy": null
  },
  {
    "name": "projects",
    "accuracy": null
  },
  {
    "name": "achievement",
    "accuracy": 0.94971
  },
  {
    "name": "box",
    "accuracy": 0.90665
  },
  {
    "name": "business",
    "accuracy": 0.9916
  },
  {
    "name": "card",
    "accuracy": 0.94793
  }
]
```

to the following:

```json
[
  {
    "name": "businesscard",
    "accuracy": null,
    "unstable__provider": "flickr"
  },
  {
    "name": "design",
    "accuracy": null,
    "unstable__provider": "flickr"
  },
  {
    "name": "projects",
    "accuracy": null,
    "unstable__provider": "flickr"
  },
  {
    "name": "achievement",
    "accuracy": 0.94971,
    "unstable__provider": "clarifai"
  },
  {
    "name": "box",
    "accuracy": 0.90665,
    "unstable__provider": "clarifai"
  },
  {
    "name": "business",
    "accuracy": 0.9916,
    "unstable__provider": "clarifai"
  },
  {
    "name": "card",
    "accuracy": 0.94793,
    "unstable__provider": "clarifai"
  }
]
```

The use of the `unstable__` prefix will ensure that we can experiment with this
addition without locking us into any changes at the moment. Because this is the
addition of a new entry in the `tags` object array and not a removal or
modification of the existing data, we should not need to modify the API version
even when we stabilize the parameter.

The availability of `unstable__provider` here will make it possible to visually
distinguish the different tag sources, which will be established in #4039.

### Modify Elasticsearch document scoring

We already have records in our dataset that include duplicate tags (one
creator-generated tag, and one machine-generated tag, such as this
[example with "light" duplicated](https://api.openverse.engineering/v1/images/a487f4eb-ce05-43e1-acae-73c4ab090cc9/)).
As we grow the number of machine-labeling providers we apply to our data, it's
possible we will end up with multiple copies of a single tag from different
providers. There are four approaches we can take for these cases concerning
scoring in Elasticsearch:

- Prefer creator-generated tags and exclude machine-generated tags
- Prefer machine-generated tags and exclude creator-generated tags
- Prefer the creator-generated tags, but use the presence of an identical
  machine-labeled tag to boost the score/weight of the creator-generated tag in
  searches
- Keep both tags, acknowledging that this will increase the score of a
  particular result for searches that match said tag (**current behavior,
  recommended approach moving forward**)

For text-based fields, Elasticsearch provides
[two options for scoring that don't require further configuration](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/similarity.html):
`BM25` and `boolean`. `BM25` is the default algorithm, and it will boost a
document's score based on the number of times the search term appears in the
document[^bm25_explanation]. The `boolean` algorithm only scores a document
whether the search term matches _at all_, rather than the number of times it is
matched within the document.

We presently use `boolean` for the
[`title`](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/3f3376cfea8a4355229d4fb7d3a69a299de8cba4/ingestion_server/ingestion_server/es_mapping.py#L80)
and
[`description`](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/3f3376cfea8a4355229d4fb7d3a69a299de8cba4/ingestion_server/ingestion_server/es_mapping.py#L89)
fields[^bm25_change]. The `tags` field (specifically the
[`name` subfield which is what gets indexed](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/3f3376cfea8a4355229d4fb7d3a69a299de8cba4/ingestion_server/ingestion_server/es_mapping.py#L110-L117))
does not have an explicit `similarity` defined, and therefore it is already
using the `BM25` algorithm.

Below is a discussion of each approach, with the advantages & disadvantages for
taking said approach.

[^bm25_explanation]:
    Note that it does not do this naively, as Okapi BM25 has additional
    complexity involved for how prevalent the search term is in the entire
    dataset. For more information, see: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okapi_BM25

[^bm25_change]:
    #751 intends to explore changing this, but it is blocked by #421.

#### Prefer creator-generated tags and exclude machine-generated tags

The easiest way to handle this approach would be to add logic to the data
refresh's [tag processing step][parse_tags_logic] which would exclude any tags
that did not match the document's provider. However, this would also mean that
the machine-generated tags would not be able to contribute to a document's
scoring (and therefore its search relevancy). This seems counter to our desire
for adding the machine-generated labels in general and would only serve to
provide more context/information for API consumers _once they have the result_.
If they're unable to find the result in the first place, then the presence of
the machine-generated labels is irrelevant here.

#### Prefer machine-generated tags and exclude creator-generated tags

Similar to
[the previous step](#prefer-creator-generated-tags-and-exclude-machine-generated-tags),
this could be accomplished by adding logic to the [tag processing
step][parse_tags_logic] to exclude tags that have a provider which matches the
document's provider. This feels like the wrong approach for a few reasons:

- At present, we have far fewer machine-generated tags than we do records with
  creator-generated tags. This change would necessarily have an impact on search
  performance, and since tags are one of the 3 text fields that get searched for
  a query term, it would likely make a large portion of records no longer show
  up in the results.
- Many of our sources include
  [GLAM institutions](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GLAM_(cultural_heritage)>).
  These groups often go to great lengths to appropriately catalog and tag the
  works that we ingest, and excluding those tags from being searched against
  would be counter to that effort.
- Machine-generated labeling is inherently biased, and may be incorrect in some
  cases.

#### Prefer the creator-generated tags, but boost on duplicate machine-generated tags

This approach would likely need to leverage a custom
[`rank_feature`](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-rank-feature-query.html)[^rank_feature]
or
[`function_score`](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-function-score-query.html).
This would only give us the benefit of machine-generated tags _in cases where
the machine tags matched the creator tags_. In other words, this would only
improve the relevancy of results that were already present in search results for
a given search term, it would not add any _new_ records to searches if the
record did not already match for that term. In some of the exploratory analysis
that was performed on the Rekognition-labeled images, maintainers discovered
that the machine-generated tags were able to add relevant terms for images which
did not have those tags already. For instance, an image of a cat with only the
tag "best friend" from the creator would not show up under a search for "cat" in
this case, even though the image has a cat in it and even if a machine-generated
tag for "cat" were present.

[^rank_feature]:
    We already have a number of `rank_feature` fields, which could be used as a
    basis for this approach:
    <https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/3f3376cfea8a4355229d4fb7d3a69a299de8cba4/ingestion_server/ingestion_server/es_mapping.py#L96-L104>

#### Keep both tags and allow that to affect the document score

This is the current approach, and also the simplest: leave the default
`similarity` setting for `tags` and allow a result with duplicate tags to
receive a higher score. This has the following advantages:

- No action on the Elasticsearch index settings is needed (save for
  documentation making this change explicit).
- Machine-generated labels can help boost images with content that's relevant
  for searches even if the other fields (`title`/`description`/`tags`) do not
  mention the image content.
- Records with duplicate machine- and creator-generated tags mean those tags are
  likely quite relevant, and a higher score for them seems appropriate.
- Records which don't have machine-generated labels will not receive any
  boosting, making them less likely to show up in searches.

#### Conclusion

For all the reasons and explanation provided above, we should move forward with
the
[approach to keep both sets of tags](#keep-both-tags-and-allow-that-to-affect-the-document-score).
This means that we do not need to make any changes to the data refresh process
or the Elasticsearch indices at this time.

## Dependencies

This project does not have any dependencies and can be worked on immediately.

### Infrastructure

<!-- Describe any infrastructure that will need to be provisioned or modified. In particular, identify associated potential cost changes. -->

No infrastructure changes will be necessary, we will only be exposing data which
is already present in the UI.

## Alternatives

<!-- Describe any alternatives considered and why they were not chosen or recommended. -->

Several alternatives are proposed as part of this document, which could be
pursued if any of the outcomes outlined are decided to be more desirable.

## API version changes

<!-- Explore or mention any changes to the API versioning scheme. -->

As outlined in [this section](#expose-provider-in-tags), no API version change
is necessary at this time.

## Rollback

<!-- How do we roll back this solution in the event of failure? Are there any steps that can not easily be rolled back? -->

Since the data is already present in the API database, only code changes would
be necessary for rolling back this change.

## Prior art

<!-- Include links to documents and resources that you used when coming up with your solution. Credit people who have contributed to the solution that you wish to acknowledge. -->

- #751
- #421

Commit message:

Add notes from other maintainer feedback

documentation/projects/proposals/rekognition_data/20240423-implementation_plan_machine_generated_tags_api.md, after:

# 2024-04-23 Implementation Plan: Machine-generated tags in the API

**Author**: @AetherUnbound

<!-- See the implementation plan guide for more information: https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/tree/19791f51c063d0979112f4b9f4eeace04c8cf5ff/docs/projects#implementation-plans-status-in-rfc -->
<!-- This template is exhaustive and may include sections which aren't relevant to your project. Feel free to remove any sections which would not be useful to have. -->

## Reviewers

<!-- Choose two people at your discretion who make sense to review this based on their existing expertise. Check in to make sure folks aren't currently reviewing more than one other proposal or RFC. -->

- [ ] @krysal
- [ ] @obulat

## Project links

<!-- Enumerate any references to other documents/pages, including milestones and other plans -->

- [Project Thread](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/issues/431)
- [Project Proposal](/projects/proposals/rekognition_data/20240320-project_proposal_rekognition_data.md)

[parse_tags_logic]:
  https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/df57ab3eb6586502995d6fa70cf417352ec68402/ingestion_server/ingestion_server/elasticsearch_models.py#L196-L206

## Overview

<!-- An overview of the implementation plan, if necessary. Save any specific steps for the section(s) below. -->

The project proposal linked above endeavors to add a new set of
machine-generated tags to our catalog database as its end goal, however we
[already have records in our dataset that include machine-generated tags](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/pull/3948#discussion_r1552301581).
Nothing currently exists to distinguish these tags from creator-generated ones,
except for the presence of an `accuracy` value alongside the tag name.

This implementation plan will describe how we plan on conveying
machine-generated tags in the API, and also how they will be handled when
searches are made in Elasticsearch. It will not cover the semantics of the
actual labels (i.e. which machine-generated labels to retain or discard), as
that is the purview of #4040.

## Expected Outcomes

<!-- List any succinct expected products from this implementation plan. -->

When this work is completed, it is expected that we will be able to clearly
distinguish which tags returned by the API are machine-generated and where those
tags came from. We will also have a clearly documented approach for handling
duplicate tags and how this affects search results.

## Step-by-step plan

<!--
List the ordered steps of the plan in the form of imperative-tone issue titles.

The goal of this section is to give a high-level view of the order of implementation any relationships like
blockages or other dependencies that exist between steps of the plan. Link each step to the step description
in the following section.

If special deployments are required between steps, explicitly note them here. Additionally, highlight key
milestones like when a feature flag could be made available in a particular environment.
-->

The implementation of this work involves two primary pieces:

1. [Expose provider information for each tag within the results](#expose-provider-in-tags)
2. [Apply modifications (if necessary) to the Elasticsearch document scoring](#modify-elasticsearch-document-scoring)

## Step details

<!--
Describe all of the implementation steps listed in the "step-by-step plan" in detail.

For each step description, ensure the heading includes an obvious reference to the step as described in the
"step-by-step plan" section above.
-->

### Expose provider in tags

This step will be straightforward, as the provider information for tags already
exists in the API database. In order to have them show up in the API results, we
would need to modify the
[`TagSerializer`](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/3ed38fc4b138af2f6ac03fcc065ec633d6905d73/api/api/serializers/media_serializers.py#L442)
to include an `unstable__provider` field as well. This would change the returned
`tags` entry for a result from:

```json
[
  {
    "name": "businesscard",
    "accuracy": null
  },
  {
    "name": "design",
    "accuracy": null
  },
  {
    "name": "projects",
    "accuracy": null
  },
  {
    "name": "achievement",
    "accuracy": 0.94971
  },
  {
    "name": "box",
    "accuracy": 0.90665
  },
  {
    "name": "business",
    "accuracy": 0.9916
  },
  {
    "name": "card",
    "accuracy": 0.94793
  }
]
```

to the following:

```json
[
  {
    "name": "businesscard",
    "accuracy": null,
    "unstable__provider": "flickr"
  },
  {
    "name": "design",
    "accuracy": null,
    "unstable__provider": "flickr"
  },
  {
    "name": "projects",
    "accuracy": null,
    "unstable__provider": "flickr"
  },
  {
    "name": "achievement",
    "accuracy": 0.94971,
    "unstable__provider": "clarifai"
  },
  {
    "name": "box",
    "accuracy": 0.90665,
    "unstable__provider": "clarifai"
  },
  {
    "name": "business",
    "accuracy": 0.9916,
    "unstable__provider": "clarifai"
  },
  {
    "name": "card",
    "accuracy": 0.94793,
    "unstable__provider": "clarifai"
  }
]
```

The use of the `unstable__` prefix will ensure that we can experiment with this
addition without locking us into any changes at the moment. Because this is the
addition of a new entry in the `tags` object array and not a removal or
modification of the existing data, we should not need to modify the API version
even when we stabilize the parameter.

The availability of `unstable__provider` here will make it possible to visually
distinguish the different tag sources, which will be established in #4039.

### Modify Elasticsearch document scoring

We already have records in our dataset that include duplicate tags (one
creator-generated tag, and one machine-generated tag, such as this
[example with "light" duplicated](https://api.openverse.engineering/v1/images/a487f4eb-ce05-43e1-acae-73c4ab090cc9/)).
As we grow the number of machine-labeling providers we apply to our data, it's
possible we will end up with multiple copies of a single tag from different
providers. There are four approaches we can take which would affect these cases
concerning scoring in Elasticsearch:

- Prefer creator-generated tags and exclude machine-generated tags
- Prefer machine-generated tags and exclude creator-generated tags
- Prefer the creator-generated tags, but use the presence of an identical
  machine-labeled tag to boost the score/weight of the creator-generated tag in
  searches
- Keep both tags, acknowledging that this will increase the score of a
  particular result for searches that match said tag (**current behavior,
  recommended approach moving forward**)

For text-based fields, Elasticsearch provides
[two options for scoring that don't require further configuration](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/similarity.html):
`BM25` and `boolean`. `BM25` is the default algorithm, and it will boost a
document's score based on the number of times the search term appears in the
document[^bm25_explanation]. The `boolean` algorithm only scores a document
whether the search term matches _at all_, rather than the number of times it is
matched within the document.

We presently use `boolean` for the
[`title`](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/3f3376cfea8a4355229d4fb7d3a69a299de8cba4/ingestion_server/ingestion_server/es_mapping.py#L80)
and
[`description`](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/3f3376cfea8a4355229d4fb7d3a69a299de8cba4/ingestion_server/ingestion_server/es_mapping.py#L89)
fields[^bm25_change]. The `tags` field (specifically the
[`name` subfield which is what gets indexed](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/3f3376cfea8a4355229d4fb7d3a69a299de8cba4/ingestion_server/ingestion_server/es_mapping.py#L110-L117))
does not have an explicit `similarity` defined, and therefore it is already
using the `BM25` algorithm.

Below is a discussion of each approach, with the advantages & disadvantages for
taking said approach. It should be noted that, since we do not have
machine-generated labels for _all_ of our data, any approach we take with this
data will arbitrarily and unevenly affect our results. This is a product of the
machine-generated labels we do have available, and is unavoidable if we wish to
incorporate it.

[^bm25_explanation]:
    Note that it does not do this naively, as Okapi BM25 has additional
    complexity involved for how prevalent the search term is in the entire
    dataset. For more information, see: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okapi_BM25

[^bm25_change]:
    #751 intends to explore changing this, but it is blocked by #421.

#### Prefer creator-generated tags and exclude machine-generated tags

The easiest way to handle this approach would be to add logic to the data
refresh's [tag processing step][parse_tags_logic] which would exclude any tags
that did not match the document's provider. However, this would also mean that
the machine-generated tags would not be able to contribute to a document's
scoring (and therefore its search relevancy). This seems counter to our desire
for adding the machine-generated labels in general and would only serve to
provide more context/information for API consumers _once they have the result_.
If they're unable to find the result in the first place, then the presence of
the machine-generated labels is irrelevant here.

An altered version of this approach might only exclude machine-generated tags
that are duplicated by creator-generated tags. This would allow the
machine-generated tags to help surface documents in searches which previously
would not have appeared, while also preventing duplicate tags from affecting the
document's score.

#### Prefer machine-generated tags and exclude creator-generated tags

Similar to
[the previous step](#prefer-creator-generated-tags-and-exclude-machine-generated-tags),
this could be accomplished by adding logic to the [tag processing
step][parse_tags_logic] to exclude tags that have a provider which matches the
document's provider. This feels like the wrong approach for a few reasons:

- At present, we have far fewer machine-generated tags than we do records with
  creator-generated tags. This change would necessarily have an impact on search
  performance, and since tags are one of the 3 text fields that get searched for
  a query term, it would likely make a large portion of records no longer show
  up in the results.
- Many of our sources include
  [GLAM institutions](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GLAM_(cultural_heritage)>).
  These groups often go to great lengths to appropriately catalog and tag the
  works that we ingest, and excluding those tags from being searched against
  would be counter to that effort.
- Machine-generated labeling is inherently biased, and may be incorrect in some
  cases.

#### Prefer the creator-generated tags, but boost on duplicate machine-generated tags

This approach would likely need to leverage a custom
[`rank_feature`](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-rank-feature-query.html)[^rank_feature]
or
[`function_score`](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/query-dsl-function-score-query.html).
This would only give us the benefit of machine-generated tags _in cases where
the machine tags matched the creator tags_. In other words, this would only
improve the relevancy of results that were already present in search results for
a given search term, it would not add any _new_ records to searches if the
record did not already match for that term. In some of the exploratory analysis
that was performed on the Rekognition-labeled images, maintainers discovered
that the machine-generated tags were able to add relevant terms for images which
did not have those tags already. For instance, an image of a cat with only the
tag "best friend" from the creator would not show up under a search for "cat" in
this case, even though the image has a cat in it and even if a machine-generated
tag for "cat" were present.

[^rank_feature]:
    We already have a number of `rank_feature` fields, which could be used as a
    basis for this approach:
    <https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/3f3376cfea8a4355229d4fb7d3a69a299de8cba4/ingestion_server/ingestion_server/es_mapping.py#L96-L104>

#### Keep both tags and allow that to affect the document score

This is the current approach, and also the simplest: leave the default
`similarity` setting for `tags` and allow a result with duplicate tags to
receive a higher score. This has the following effects:

- No action on the Elasticsearch index settings is needed (save for
  documentation making this change explicit).
- Machine-generated labels can help boost images with content that's relevant
  for searches even if the other fields (`title`/`description`/`tags`) do not
  mention the image content.
- Records with duplicate machine- and creator-generated tags mean those tags are
  likely quite relevant, and a higher score for them seems appropriate.
- Records which don't have machine-generated labels will not receive any
  boosting, making them less likely to show up in searches.

#### Conclusion

In addition to all the reasons and explanation provided above, we should move
forward with the
[approach to keep both sets of tags](#keep-both-tags-and-allow-that-to-affect-the-document-score)
because:

- It is the easiest and quickest solution at this time, since it means that we
  do not need to make any changes to the data refresh process or the
  Elasticsearch indices.
- It doesn't preclude us from taking a different approach, particularly after
  #421.
- It is an entirely reversible decision.

## Dependencies

This project does not have any dependencies and can be worked on immediately.

### Infrastructure

<!-- Describe any infrastructure that will need to be provisioned or modified. In particular, identify associated potential cost changes. -->

No infrastructure changes will be necessary, we will only be exposing data which
is already present in the UI.

## Alternatives

<!-- Describe any alternatives considered and why they were not chosen or recommended. -->

Several alternatives are proposed as part of this document, which could be
pursued if any of the outcomes outlined are decided to be more desirable.

## API version changes

<!-- Explore or mention any changes to the API versioning scheme. -->

As outlined in [this section](#expose-provider-in-tags), no API version change
is necessary at this time.

## Rollback

<!-- How do we roll back this solution in the event of failure? Are there any steps that can not easily be rolled back? -->

Since the data is already present in the API database, only code changes would
be necessary for rolling back this change.

## Prior art

<!-- Include links to documents and resources that you used when coming up with your solution. Credit people who have contributed to the solution that you wish to acknowledge. -->

- #751
- #421
