documentation/meta/ci_cd/jobs/api.md, before:

# API jobs

The API flow uses the following other jobs.

- [`get-changes`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/preparation.md#get-changes)
- [`determine-images`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/docker.md#determine-images)
- [`get-image-tag`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/preparation.md#get-image-tag)
- `lint`
- [`build-images`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/docker.md#build-images)
- [`publish-images`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/docker.md#publish-images)

## `test-api`

Initialises the API using the `api/init` recipe and runs tests for the API using
the `api/test` recipe. Tests are run inside a Docker container so neither Python
nor Node.js needs to be installed.

This job is skipped if the API codebase has not changed. Its counterparts are

- [`test-cat`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/catalog.md#test-cat) for the catalog
- [`test-ing`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/ingestion_server.md#test-ing) for the ingestion
  server
- [`nuxt-build`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/frontend.md#nuxt-build) for the frontend
- [`build-docs`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/documentation.md#build-docs) for the
  documentation

This job exports the [`api_logs` artifact](/meta/ci_cd/artifacts.md#logs).

```{note}
This job is treated as the proof of functionality for publishing Docker images
for the API and deploying the image to staging.

Since the job also initialises the API, it provides a basic verification of the
ingestion server's core functionality of populating the API database and
Elasticsearch.
```

## `django-checks`

Runs a matrix of various Django checks for the API using the following `just`
recipes.

| Name               | Recipe                                                                    |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `check_django`     | `api/dj check`                                                            |
| `validate_openapi` | `api/dj spectacular --format openapi-json --validate --file openapi.json` |
| `check_migrations` | `api/dj makemigrations --check --noinput --merge`                         |
| `test_doc`         | `api/doc-test`                                                            |
| `test_media_props` | `api/generate-docs`                                                       |

This job is skipped if the API codebase has not changed. Its counterpart is
[`nuxt-checks`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/frontend.md#nuxt-checks) for the frontend.

Since this is a required check for a matrix job, it has a bypass counterpart.
Refer to the documentation for [bypass jobs](/meta/ci_cd/flow.md#bypass-jobs).

The job with the name `test_doc` in this matrix exports the
[`openapi.json` artifact](/meta/ci_cd/artifacts.md#documentation).

Commit message:

Make API image smaller by not including dev dependencies (#4285)

documentation/meta/ci_cd/jobs/api.md, after:

# API jobs

The API flow uses the following other jobs.

- [`get-changes`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/preparation.md#get-changes)
- [`determine-images`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/docker.md#determine-images)
- [`get-image-tag`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/preparation.md#get-image-tag)
- `lint`
- [`build-images`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/docker.md#build-images)
- [`publish-images`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/docker.md#publish-images)

## `test-api`

Initialises the API using the `api/init` recipe and runs tests for the API using
the `api/test` recipe. Tests are run inside a Docker container so neither Python
nor Node.js needs to be installed.

This job creates a special separate API image that includes the dev dependencies
required for running tests. It does not use the `api` image created in the
[`build-images`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/docker.md#build-images) job.

This job is skipped if the API codebase has not changed. Its counterparts are

- [`test-cat`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/catalog.md#test-cat) for the catalog
- [`test-ing`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/ingestion_server.md#test-ing) for the ingestion
  server
- [`nuxt-build`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/frontend.md#nuxt-build) for the frontend
- [`build-docs`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/documentation.md#build-docs) for the
  documentation

This job exports the [`api_logs` artifact](/meta/ci_cd/artifacts.md#logs).

```{note}
This job is treated as the proof of functionality for publishing Docker images
for the API and deploying the image to staging.

Since the job also initialises the API, it provides a basic verification of the
ingestion server's core functionality of populating the API database and
Elasticsearch.
```

## `django-checks`

Runs a matrix of various Django checks for the API using the following `just`
recipes.

| Name               | Recipe                                                                    |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `check_django`     | `api/dj check`                                                            |
| `validate_openapi` | `api/dj spectacular --format openapi-json --validate --file openapi.json` |
| `check_migrations` | `api/dj makemigrations --check --noinput --merge`                         |
| `test_doc`         | `api/doc-test`                                                            |
| `test_media_props` | `api/generate-docs`                                                       |

This job is skipped if the API codebase has not changed. Its counterpart is
[`nuxt-checks`](/meta/ci_cd/jobs/frontend.md#nuxt-checks) for the frontend.

Since this is a required check for a matrix job, it has a bypass counterpart.
Refer to the documentation for [bypass jobs](/meta/ci_cd/flow.md#bypass-jobs).

The job with the name `test_doc` in this matrix exports the
[`openapi.json` artifact](/meta/ci_cd/artifacts.md#documentation).
