documentation/api/guides/deploy.md, before:

# Deployment runbook

```{tip}
For more information on how deployments work, please see the [general deployment guide](/general/deployment.md).
```

1. Visit
   [https://api-staging.openverse.engineering/version](https://api-staging.openverse.engineering/version)
   and
   [the API Docker image](https://github.com/wordpress/openverse/pkgs/container/openverse-api).
   Verify that the commit SHA live on the staging site is also tagged with
   `latest` in the Docker image.
   ![GitHub package directory screenshot](/_static/package_directory_example.png)
1. Release the app via
   [GitHub workflow](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/actions/workflows/release-app.yml).
   Click the "Run workflow" button, choose "api" from the dropdown, and supply
   the SHA identified in step 1.
1. That's it! The API will be deployed. You can monitor the deployment in the
   maintainers `#openverse-notifications` channel and in the
   [infrastructure repository's workflow listing](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse-infrastructure/actions).

## Post-deployment steps

1. Check for any Sentry errors in the maintainer's `#openverse-alerts` channel,
   or in the Sentry UI.
1. Visit
   [https://api.openverse.engineering/v1](https://api.openverse.engineering/v1)
   and verify the SHA is the same as the value you deployed.
1. Review and Approve the automatically-generated changelog pull request in the
   repository.
1. In the event of errors or problems, repeat the deployment process using the
   latest stable version of the application. You can find the release version
   number in the [changelogs](/changelogs/index), and then the tag to pass to
   the action is the version number prefixed with "rel-", for example
   "rel-2023.07.03.17.52.00".
1. If anything else goes wrong or service is disrupted, consider this a
   Production Incident and notify the team.

Commit message:

Separate release drafting from publishing (#3755)
* WIP Separate release drafting from publishing

* Remove testing code

* Resolve confusion of where the release is drafted

* Update documentation for new release process

documentation/api/guides/deploy.md, after:

# Deployment runbook

```{tip}
For more information on how deployments work, please see the [general deployment guide](/general/deployment.md).
```

1. [Publish the drafted API release in the GitHub release page of the monorepo](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/releases?q=api-)
   - Here you can preview the changes included in the API release and decide
     whether a release is necessary and adjust monitoring during the deployment
     accordingly.
1. That's it! The API will be deployed. You can monitor the deployment in the
   maintainers `#openverse-notifications` channel and in the
   [infrastructure repository's workflow listing](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse-infrastructure/actions).

## Post-deployment steps

1. Check for any Sentry errors in the maintainer's `#openverse-alerts` channel,
   or in the Sentry UI.
1. Visit
   [https://api.openverse.engineering/v1](https://api.openverse.engineering/v1)
   and verify the SHA is the same as the value you deployed.
1. Review and Approve the automatically-generated changelog pull request in the
   repository.
1. In the event of errors or problems, repeat the deployment process using the
   latest stable version of the application. You can find the release version
   number in the [changelogs](/changelogs/index), and then the tag to pass to
   the action is the version number prefixed with "rel-", for example
   "rel-2023.07.03.17.52.00".
1. If anything else goes wrong or service is disrupted, consider this a
   Production Incident and notify the team.
