documentation/general/deployment.md, before:

# Deployments

This document covers API and Frontend deployments. It does not include
information regarding the ingestion server or our Airflow instance. If you need
to deploy a specific application _now_, please see the deployment runbooks for
each of our services:

- [API](/api/guides/deploy.md)
- [Frontend](/frontend/guides/deploy.md)
- [Catalog](/catalog/guides/deploy.md)
- [Ingestion Server](/ingestion_server/guides/deploy.md)

## Real-time Deployment Information

```{note}
Deployment logs are currently held in a private repository but are linked here for the benefit of maintainers. If you need information regarding deployments generally or a specific deployment, please ping `@WordPress/openverse-maintainers` and someone can retrieve the information you need for you.
```

### Frontend

| Environment | Deployment Log                                                                                                       | URL                                | Version Endpoint                                                 |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Staging     | [Deployment Log](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse-infrastructure/actions/workflows/deploy-staging-nuxt.yml)    | <https://staging.openverse.org>    | [`/version.json`](https://staging.openverse.org/version.json)    |
| Production  | [Deployment Log](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse-infrastructure/actions/workflows/deploy-production-nuxt.yml) | <https://production.openverse.org> | [`/version.json`](https://production.openverse.org/version.json) |

### API

| Environment | Deployment Log                                                                                                      | URL                                         | Version Endpoint                                                |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Staging     | [Deployment Log](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse-infrastructure/actions/workflows/deploy-staging-api.yml)    | <https://api-staging.openverse.engineering> | [`/version`](https://api-staging.openverse.engineering/version) |
| Production  | [Deployment Log](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse-infrastructure/actions/workflows/deploy-production-api.yml) | <https://api.openverse.engineering>         | [`/version`](https://api.openverse.engineering/version)         |

## Overview

The Openverse Nuxt frontend and Django API are deployed using AWS's Elastic
Container Service. Both are encapsulated into single ECS services per
environment. The overall approach of deployments is to generate a new _task
definition_ and to associate that task definition with the ECS Service. This
causes the service to deploy the new task definition as a newly running _task_.
Once the service has determined the new task to be healthy, it will redirect all
traffic to the new task away from the old task. This is called _draining_. Once
the old task is drained, it is spun down and the only task left running is the
new one. The same process is followed when there are multiple tasks and each
task is drained one at a time following our
[zero-downtime approach to deployments](/general/zero_downtime_database_management.md).

```{note}
The number of running tasks per active task definition may vary per
environment but has no bearings on the deployment process. The size of the
service is handled entirely on the infrastructure side. The process above is
completely automated and contributors generally do not need to be acutely
aware of the "behind the scenes" stuff going on, but it can be helpful for
understanding what is happening during a deployment.
```

## Deployment Workflow

Deployments for all environments follow the same general workflow. **This
workflow is completely automated and auditable via GitHub Workflows.**

1. Build and publish the docker image(s) for the application and tag
   appropriately for the deployment.
   - This happens for every commit on the `main` branch inside the
     [`ci_cd.yml` workflow](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/ce5424f2dfce97772ebd887f09e8943f89c56171/.github/workflows/ci_cd.yml#L905)
     rather than the deployment workflows.
   - If wishing to publish from a non-`main` branch, use the
     [`perform_deploy` input on the `ci_cd.yml` workflow](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/ce5424f2dfce97772ebd887f09e8943f89c56171/.github/workflows/ci_cd.yml#L16).
2. Download the template task definition from AWS for the environment and
   application being deployed. Render a new task definition based on the
   template, changing the following:
   1. The new image tag(s)
   2. Remove the `-template` suffix from the family name (essentially removing
      the "template" identifiers present in the template)
3. Register the new rendered task definition to the ECS service.
   - This causes the ECS service to begin deploying the new task definition.
4. Wait for the ECS service to report that it is stable.
   - During this waiting period, the process described in the
     [opening paragraph](#overview) is orchestrated by ECS. This part is _not_
     transparent in the GitHub Workflows and will simply appear as a waiting
     step without any further information.

This process, from start to finish, generally takes less than 15 minutes. If it
takes longer than 15 then something is probably wrong.

### Failures

Failures are automatically handled and the Openverse maintainers are notified.
The GitHub Workflow log is the canonical source of truth of the record of our
deployment attempts. See the table at the top of this document for links to
these logs per environment.

If any of the steps described above fails, including the new task spin up and
switch over, the deployment is deemed a failure. If the failure occurs while
trying to start a new healthy task, the ECS service will automatically rollback
to the previous task definition revision. Remember that the previous task is not
drained and removed until the new task is determined to be healthy, so this
rollback has zero downtime. Automated rollbacks do not create a new task
definition revision, the service just uses the last healthy revision.

If the docker build fails then there is nothing to rollback. The failure needs
to be investigated and the issue fixed for deployments to be possible again.
This is unlikely to happen because we require valid Docker image builds as part
of our CI. Nonetheless, given certain semantic merge conflicts, it is possible
that a PR could pass CI and still cause a build failure when merged, so it is
technically possible for a failure to occur during the first step.

#### Debugging Failures

```{tip}
Please refer to the [general ECS logging documentation](/meta/monitoring/cloudwatch_logs/index.md)
for details about how to find logs for individual tasks.

An additional resource that is often helpful other than logs is the events list for a
service. You can find that under the "Events" tab of the ECS service's page:

![Example ECS events tab for the production API](/_static/ecs_events_tab.png)

This tab shows a chronological list of the 100 most recent "events". Please
[refer to the AWS ECS documentation for information on what each of these events mean](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/ecs_cwe_events.html).
```

#### Re-running Failed Deployments

```{tip}
To re-run a failed deployment with the same tag, simply re-run the failed deployment
workflow in the WordPress/openverse-infrastructure repository. **Do not re-run the
release workflow in the monorepo or this will create duplicate tags**. This approach
is useful if you think the deployment failed due to a temporary fluke.

![Example failed production API deployment workflow.](/_static/rerun_failed_deployment.png)

To re-run this failed production API deployment, re-run the failed jobs via the GitHub
UI.
```

## Staging

Staging is automatically deployed any time code is merged to the `main` branch
of this repository. The frontend and API are deployed only when changes are
merged that pertain to each particular application. Staging deployments follow
the process above. The staging deployment workflows
[tag images with the commit SHA](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/2646c5ead465603b42c70f58a190f7b50861d698/.github/workflows/ci_cd.yml#L62).

## Production

Maintainers begin the production deployment process by publishing the drafted
release for an application. Publishing a release automatically tags the latest
docker image for the application and opens a PR to add the changelog to the
[documentation site's changelog directory](https://docs.openverse.org/changelogs/index.html).
This needs to be manually approved and merged by maintainers. The person who
triggers the release app workflow is pinged in the PR description to help with
the visibility of the PR.

For the API and frontend, publishing the release also triggers an automated
production deployment. For the catalog and ingestion server, however,
maintainers must manually deploy the changes to production using the Terraform
deployment process.

## Rollbacks

Even if the deployment process described above succeeds, sometimes we may
realise that the deployed code is not behaving as we expected. In these cases it
may be necessary to force an environment to be deployed to a specific version,
usually the previous version of the application.

The same staging and production deployment workflows are used directly to
rollback any environment for any service. Only members of the
@WordPress/openverse-maintainers GitHub team are able to dispatch the workflows
to completion. Anyone else who tries to dispatch them will have the workflow
automatically fail.

The workflows require one input: `tag`, which must be a valid tag that exists in
the image repository for that application. The `tag` input is validated against
the available list of tags and the workflow will fail if the tag is determined
not to exist in the image repository. You can find a list of release tags for
specific apps by filtering git tags based on the tag prefix for the app:

```bash
git tag -l '<app slug>-*'
```

Replace `<app slug>` with `api`, `frontend`, or `ingestion_server` as needed.

After validating the tag and that the dispatcher is authorised, the Rollback
workflow follows the [deployment process described above](#deployment-workflow),
without building the Docker image as it reuses the existing image tagged with
the input.

## Environment Variables

When deploying code that depends on a new or updated environment variable, you
must follow the process below _before_ that code is deployed. This is the only
way to make the new or updated variable available for the code the depends on
it. Please see the
[zero-downtime deployments document's section on environment variables for an in-depth explanation of the rationale behind this process](/general/zero_downtime_database_management.md#environment-variables).

1. Update the template task definition for the service with the new or updated
   environment variable.

   - Request help from `@WordPress/openverse-maintainers` if you're unable to do
     this yourself (i.e., if you do not have the ability to make changes to our
     Terraform configuration)

2. Deploy the code that depends on the new or updated variable by dispatching
   the appropriate deployment workflow for the application and environment that
   was updated.
   - If the application only needs to be re-deployed to the already
     running-version, dispatch the workflow with the version present at the
     version endpoint for the application. See the "version endpoint" in the
     [real-time deployment information](#real-time-deployment-information)
     tables above to determine the currently running version.

## Future end-to-end test integration

In the future we hope to integrate end-to-end tests into this workflow and to
tighten the staging to production pipeline. Essentially, we would like the
deployment pipeline to go something like this:

1. Merge PR to `main`.
2. Wait for staging to deploy.
3. Playwright tests automatically run against the new staging environment
   (frontend and live API).
4. While Playwright tests are running, the person who merged the PR should
   manually verify that their change behaves as expected.
5. After the Playwright tests are confirmed to have passed, unlock a "deploy to
   production" button somewhere that pushes the image currently deployed to
   staging into the production task definition.

Following this process would effectively mean that production gets deployed
every time code is merged to `main`. It reduces the turn around for new features
and bug fixes because they don't have to wait for a new release to be manually
created.

We could more or less follow the process as described today just by creating a
new release every time we've merged to staging and verified our changes, but
there are a couple missing pieces that would need to be implemented to make this
process easy to follow, to varying degrees of difficulty:

1. We need a GitHub workflow that runs the Playwright tests against the staging
   deployment automatically after staging is deployed. This will require some
   Playwright configuration tweaks and increased test timeouts due to network
   latency.
2. We would need to create a queue so that new staging deployments do not occur
   until the current staging deployment is live on production. This could be
   implemented by polling the `/version.json` endpoints of both environments and
   only liberating a new staging deployment for new merges once the endpoints
   both report the same `release` property.
3. We would need to update the production deployment workflow to not create a
   new Docker build and instead just pull the current tag from the staging
   `/version.json` endpoint.

Note that this workflow does make the process of merging a PR heavier than it is
today. This comes with some benefits:

1. PRs will likely be more carefully tested as the consequence of merging them
   is higher and more immediate.
2. Bug fixes appear in production earlier.
3. Features can be rolled out with more care using feature flags and likewise
   more quickly.

Commit message:

Update documentation for how to perform rollbacks

documentation/general/deployment.md, after:

# Deployments

This document covers API and Frontend deployments. It does not include
information regarding the ingestion server or our Airflow instance. If you need
to deploy a specific application _now_, please see the deployment runbooks for
each of our services:

- [API](/api/guides/deploy.md)
- [Frontend](/frontend/guides/deploy.md)
- [Catalog](/catalog/guides/deploy.md)
- [Ingestion Server](/ingestion_server/guides/deploy.md)

## Real-time Deployment Information

```{note}
Deployment logs are currently held in a private repository but are linked here for the benefit of maintainers. If you need information regarding deployments generally or a specific deployment, please ping `@WordPress/openverse-maintainers` and someone can retrieve the information you need for you.
```

### Frontend

| Environment | Deployment Log                                                                                                       | URL                                | Version Endpoint                                                 |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Staging     | [Deployment Log](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse-infrastructure/actions/workflows/deploy-staging-nuxt.yml)    | <https://staging.openverse.org>    | [`/version.json`](https://staging.openverse.org/version.json)    |
| Production  | [Deployment Log](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse-infrastructure/actions/workflows/deploy-production-nuxt.yml) | <https://production.openverse.org> | [`/version.json`](https://production.openverse.org/version.json) |

### API

| Environment | Deployment Log                                                                                                      | URL                                         | Version Endpoint                                                |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Staging     | [Deployment Log](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse-infrastructure/actions/workflows/deploy-staging-api.yml)    | <https://api-staging.openverse.engineering> | [`/version`](https://api-staging.openverse.engineering/version) |
| Production  | [Deployment Log](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse-infrastructure/actions/workflows/deploy-production-api.yml) | <https://api.openverse.engineering>         | [`/version`](https://api.openverse.engineering/version)         |

## Overview

The Openverse Nuxt frontend and Django API are deployed using AWS's Elastic
Container Service. Both are encapsulated into single ECS services per
environment. The overall approach of deployments is to generate a new _task
definition_ and to associate that task definition with the ECS Service. This
causes the service to deploy the new task definition as a newly running _task_.
Once the service has determined the new task to be healthy, it will redirect all
traffic to the new task away from the old task. This is called _draining_. Once
the old task is drained, it is spun down and the only task left running is the
new one. The same process is followed when there are multiple tasks and each
task is drained one at a time following our
[zero-downtime approach to deployments](/general/zero_downtime_database_management.md).

```{note}
The number of running tasks per active task definition may vary per
environment but has no bearings on the deployment process. The size of the
service is handled entirely on the infrastructure side. The process above is
completely automated and contributors generally do not need to be acutely
aware of the "behind the scenes" stuff going on, but it can be helpful for
understanding what is happening during a deployment.
```

## Deployment Workflow

Deployments for all environments follow the same general workflow. **This
workflow is completely automated and auditable via GitHub Workflows.**

1. Build and publish the docker image(s) for the application and tag
   appropriately for the deployment.
   - This happens for every commit on the `main` branch inside the
     [`ci_cd.yml` workflow](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/ce5424f2dfce97772ebd887f09e8943f89c56171/.github/workflows/ci_cd.yml#L905)
     rather than the deployment workflows.
   - If wishing to publish from a non-`main` branch, use the
     [`perform_deploy` input on the `ci_cd.yml` workflow](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/ce5424f2dfce97772ebd887f09e8943f89c56171/.github/workflows/ci_cd.yml#L16).
2. Download the template task definition from AWS for the environment and
   application being deployed. Render a new task definition based on the
   template, changing the following:
   1. The new image tag(s)
   2. Remove the `-template` suffix from the family name (essentially removing
      the "template" identifiers present in the template)
3. Register the new rendered task definition to the ECS service.
   - This causes the ECS service to begin deploying the new task definition.
4. Wait for the ECS service to report that it is stable.
   - During this waiting period, the process described in the
     [opening paragraph](#overview) is orchestrated by ECS. This part is _not_
     transparent in the GitHub Workflows and will simply appear as a waiting
     step without any further information.

This process, from start to finish, generally takes less than 15 minutes. If it
takes longer than 15 then something is probably wrong.

### Failures

Failures are automatically handled and the Openverse maintainers are notified.
The GitHub Workflow log is the canonical source of truth of the record of our
deployment attempts. See the table at the top of this document for links to
these logs per environment.

If any of the steps described above fails, including the new task spin up and
switch over, the deployment is deemed a failure. If the failure occurs while
trying to start a new healthy task, the ECS service will automatically rollback
to the previous task definition revision. Remember that the previous task is not
drained and removed until the new task is determined to be healthy, so this
rollback has zero downtime. Automated rollbacks do not create a new task
definition revision, the service just uses the last healthy revision.

If the docker build fails then there is nothing to rollback. The failure needs
to be investigated and the issue fixed for deployments to be possible again.
This is unlikely to happen because we require valid Docker image builds as part
of our CI. Nonetheless, given certain semantic merge conflicts, it is possible
that a PR could pass CI and still cause a build failure when merged, so it is
technically possible for a failure to occur during the first step.

#### Debugging Failures

```{tip}
Please refer to the [general ECS logging documentation](/meta/monitoring/cloudwatch_logs/index.md)
for details about how to find logs for individual tasks.

An additional resource that is often helpful other than logs is the events list for a
service. You can find that under the "Events" tab of the ECS service's page:

![Example ECS events tab for the production API](/_static/ecs_events_tab.png)

This tab shows a chronological list of the 100 most recent "events". Please
[refer to the AWS ECS documentation for information on what each of these events mean](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/ecs_cwe_events.html).
```

#### Re-running Failed Deployments

```{tip}
To re-run a failed deployment with the same tag, simply re-run the failed deployment
workflow in the WordPress/openverse-infrastructure repository. **Do not re-run the
release workflow in the monorepo or this will create duplicate tags**. This approach
is useful if you think the deployment failed due to a temporary fluke.

![Example failed production API deployment workflow.](/_static/rerun_failed_deployment.png)

To re-run this failed production API deployment, re-run the failed jobs via the GitHub
UI.
```

## Staging

Staging is automatically deployed any time code is merged to the `main` branch
of this repository. The frontend and API are deployed only when changes are
merged that pertain to each particular application. Staging deployments follow
the process above. The staging deployment workflows
[tag images with the commit SHA](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/2646c5ead465603b42c70f58a190f7b50861d698/.github/workflows/ci_cd.yml#L62).

## Production

Maintainers begin the production deployment process by publishing the drafted
release for an application. Publishing a release automatically tags the latest
docker image for the application and opens a PR to add the changelog to the
[documentation site's changelog directory](https://docs.openverse.org/changelogs/index.html).
This needs to be manually approved and merged by maintainers. The person who
publishes the release is pinged in the PR description to help with the
visibility of the PR.

For the API and frontend, publishing the release also triggers an automated
production deployment using the release app workflow. For the catalog and
ingestion server, however, maintainers must manually deploy the changes to
production using the Terraform deployment process.

## Rollbacks

Even if the deployment process described above succeeds, sometimes we may
realise that the deployed code is not behaving as we expected. In these cases it
may be necessary to force an environment to be deployed to a specific version,
usually the previous version of the application.

The same staging and production deployment workflows in the
WordPress/openverse-infrastructure repository are used directly to rollback any
environment for any service. **Do not attempt to perform a rollback using the
release-app workflow in the monorepo, or by creating a new release; this will
result in the creation of duplicate tags.** Only members of the
@WordPress/openverse-maintainers GitHub team are able to dispatch the workflows
to completion. Anyone else who tries to dispatch them will have the workflow
automatically fail.

The workflows require one input: `tag`, which must be a valid tag that exists in
the image repository for that application. The `tag` input is validated against
the available list of tags and the workflow will fail if the tag is determined
not to exist in the image repository. You can find a list of release tags for
specific apps by filtering git tags based on the tag prefix for the app:

```bash
git tag -l '<app slug>-*'
```

Replace `<app slug>` with `api`, `frontend`, or `ingestion_server` as needed.

After validating the tag and that the dispatcher is authorised, the Rollback
workflow follows the [deployment process described above](#deployment-workflow),
without building the Docker image as it reuses the existing image tagged with
the input.

## Environment Variables

When deploying code that depends on a new or updated environment variable, you
must follow the process below _before_ that code is deployed. This is the only
way to make the new or updated variable available for the code the depends on
it. Please see the
[zero-downtime deployments document's section on environment variables for an in-depth explanation of the rationale behind this process](/general/zero_downtime_database_management.md#environment-variables).

1. Update the template task definition for the service with the new or updated
   environment variable.

   - Request help from `@WordPress/openverse-maintainers` if you're unable to do
     this yourself (i.e., if you do not have the ability to make changes to our
     Terraform configuration)

2. Deploy the code that depends on the new or updated variable by publishing the
   release for the application and environment that was updated.
   - If the application only needs to be re-deployed to the already
     running-version, dispatch the appropriate deployment workflow in the
     WordPress/openverse-infrastructure repository with the application's
     current version. See the "version endpoint" in the
     [real-time deployment information](#real-time-deployment-information)
     tables above to determine the currently running version.

## Future end-to-end test integration

In the future we hope to integrate end-to-end tests into this workflow and to
tighten the staging to production pipeline. Essentially, we would like the
deployment pipeline to go something like this:

1. Merge PR to `main`.
2. Wait for staging to deploy.
3. Playwright tests automatically run against the new staging environment
   (frontend and live API).
4. While Playwright tests are running, the person who merged the PR should
   manually verify that their change behaves as expected.
5. After the Playwright tests are confirmed to have passed, unlock a "deploy to
   production" button somewhere that pushes the image currently deployed to
   staging into the production task definition.

Following this process would effectively mean that production gets deployed
every time code is merged to `main`. It reduces the turn around for new features
and bug fixes because they don't have to wait for a new release to be manually
created.

We could more or less follow the process as described today just by creating a
new release every time we've merged to staging and verified our changes, but
there are a couple missing pieces that would need to be implemented to make this
process easy to follow, to varying degrees of difficulty:

1. We need a GitHub workflow that runs the Playwright tests against the staging
   deployment automatically after staging is deployed. This will require some
   Playwright configuration tweaks and increased test timeouts due to network
   latency.
2. We would need to create a queue so that new staging deployments do not occur
   until the current staging deployment is live on production. This could be
   implemented by polling the `/version.json` endpoints of both environments and
   only liberating a new staging deployment for new merges once the endpoints
   both report the same `release` property.
3. We would need to update the production deployment workflow to not create a
   new Docker build and instead just pull the current tag from the staging
   `/version.json` endpoint.

Note that this workflow does make the process of merging a PR heavier than it is
today. This comes with some benefits:

1. PRs will likely be more carefully tested as the consequence of merging them
   is higher and more immediate.
2. Bug fixes appear in production earlier.
3. Features can be rolled out with more care using feature flags and likewise
   more quickly.
