documentation/general/quickstart.md, before:

# Quickstart guide

<!-- the main entrypoint of the Openverse documentation system -->

This guide covers the steps to get the Openverse stack running locally on your
computer. This guide is for setting up the full stack, which includes the API,
the ingestion server and the frontend.

## Stack-specific quickstarts

It is unlikely that you want to contribute to everything, everywhere, all at
once. In all likelihood, you intend to contribute to a narrower slice of the
stack. In such cases, you might find it more beneficial to go through one of
these stack-specific quickstart guides.

- [API](/api/guides/quickstart.md)
- [Frontend](/frontend/guides/quickstart.md)
- [Ingestion server](/ingestion_server/guides/quickstart.md)
- [Documentation](/meta/documentation/quickstart.md)

That said, there is something useful and appealing about running the full stack
locally, which this guide is all about.

## Prerequisites

Refer to the [general setup guide](/general/general_setup.md) for setting up the
prerequisites.

## Starting up

1. Ensure you download, install and set up all prerequisites. Ensure that the
   Docker daemon is running.

2. Clone the repository to your computer. Then switch to the cloned directory.
   If you're planning to contribute, fork the repo and clone your fork instead.

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/WordPress/openverse.git # or your fork
   cd openverse/
   ```

   If you followed the setup guide and installed
   [GitHub CLI](/general/general_setup.md#github-cli), you can clone more simply
   using the `gh` command.

   ```bash
   gh repo clone WordPress/openverse # or your fork
   cd openverse/
   ```

3. Install all dependencies. This step installs dependencies for the frontend,
   the documentation and the automations (both Node.js and Python) but won't
   install API or ingestion server dependencies because they are meant to run
   using Docker containers.

   ```bash
   just install
   ```

   To be more specific with your install, you can run either of the following.

   ```bash
   just node-install # only frontend and Node.js automations
   just py-install # only documentation and Python automations
   ```

4. Spin up and orchestrate all Docker services.

   ```bash
   just up
   ```

   The `up` recipe orchestrates the following services: `cache`, `db`,
   `upstream_db`, `es`, `indexer_worker`, `ingestion_server`, `web`, `proxy`,
   `webserver`, `scheduler`, `s3`, `plausible-ch`, `plausible-db` and
   `plausible`.

   The `up` recipe also prints out services that have ports exposed to the host
   (this can also be seen by running `just ps`):

   ```
   ================================================================================
                                    Service Ports
   ================================================================================
   webserver (catalog):
   -  http://0.0.0.0:9090 (→ 8080)
   ingestion_server (ingestion_server):
   -  http://0.0.0.0:50281 (→ 8001)
   plausible (plausible/analytics):
   -  http://0.0.0.0:50288 (→ 8000)
   web (api):
   -  http://0.0.0.0:50280 (→ 8000)
   -  http://0.0.0.0:50230 (→ 3000)
   s3 (minio/minio):
   -  http://0.0.0.0:5010 (→ 5000)
   -  http://0.0.0.0:5011 (→ 5001)
   db (postgres):
   -  http://0.0.0.0:50254 (→ 5432)
   es (docker.elastic.co/elasticsearch/elasticsearch):
   -  http://0.0.0.0:50292 (→ 9200)
   cache (redis):
   -  http://0.0.0.0:50263 (→ 6379)
   ================================================================================
   ```

   For example, you can access the following endpoints:

   - the list of ingestion jobs on
     [http://localhost:50281/task](http://localhost:50281/task)
   - the API documentation on [http://localhost:50280](http://localhost:50280)
   - the Plausible UI on [http://localhost:50288](http://localhost:50288)

5. Load the sample data. This step can take a few minutes to complete.

   ```bash
   just init
   ```

   ````{admonition} Troubleshooting
   If this step fails, cleaning up and restarting usually fixes it.

   ```bash
   just down -v
   just api/init
   ```
   ````

6. With the data loaded, the API can now return JSON responses to your HTTP
   requests.

   ```bash
   just api/stats
   just _curl-get "images/stats/" http://localhost:50280
   curl "http://localhost:50280/v1/images/stats/"
   [{"source_name":"flickr","display_name":"Flickr","source_url":"https://www.flickr.com","logo_url":null,"media_count":2500},{"source_name":"stocksnap","display_name":"StockSnap","source_url":"https://stocksnap.io","logo_url":null,"media_count":2500}]%
   ```

   ````{tip}
   [`jq`](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) is a tool for parsing and manipulating
   JSON data. If you have `jq` installed, you can pipe the response to it and
   transform it.

   ```bash
   just api/stats | jq '.[0]'
   {
     "source_name": "flickr",
     "display_name": "Flickr",
     "source_url": "https://www.flickr.com",
     "logo_url": null,
     "media_count": 2500
   }

   just api/stats 'audio' | jq '[.[] | .source_name]'
   [
     "freesound",
     "jamendo",
     "wikimedia_audio"
   ]
   ```

   `jq` is great, we recommend you
   [download](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/) it.
   ````

7. To bring up the frontend, we have another `just` recipe. We have `just`
   recipes for almost everything.

   ```bash
   env API_URL="http://localhost:50280" just frontend/run dev
   ```

   Now you should be able to access the following endpoints:

   - the Openverse search engine frontend on
     [http://localhost:8443](http://localhost:8443)

## Shutting down

1. You can <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd> to terminate the frontend process.

2. For services running inside Docker, like the API, ingestion server and
   Plausible, use another `just` recipe to bring them down.

   ```bash
   just down
   ```

   ````{tip}
   If you include the `-v` flag, all Docker volumes (including their data) will
   be deleted too, which is useful in case you want a fresh start.

   ```bash
   just down -v
   ```
   ````

Commit message:

Update docs to reccommend blobless cloning strategy

documentation/general/quickstart.md, after:

# Quickstart guide

<!-- the main entrypoint of the Openverse documentation system -->

This guide covers the steps to get the Openverse stack running locally on your
computer. This guide is for setting up the full stack, which includes the API,
the ingestion server and the frontend.

## Stack-specific quickstarts

It is unlikely that you want to contribute to everything, everywhere, all at
once. In all likelihood, you intend to contribute to a narrower slice of the
stack. In such cases, you might find it more beneficial to go through one of
these stack-specific quickstart guides.

- [API](/api/guides/quickstart.md)
- [Frontend](/frontend/guides/quickstart.md)
- [Ingestion server](/ingestion_server/guides/quickstart.md)
- [Documentation](/meta/documentation/quickstart.md)

That said, there is something useful and appealing about running the full stack
locally, which this guide is all about.

## Prerequisites

Refer to the [general setup guide](/general/general_setup.md) for setting up the
prerequisites.

## Starting up

1. Ensure you download, install and set up all prerequisites. Ensure that the
   Docker daemon is running.

2. Clone the repository to your computer. Then switch to the cloned directory.
   If you're planning to contribute, fork the repo and clone your fork instead.

   ```{note}
   We recommend cloning with the `--filter=blob:none` flag as it dramatically
   reduces the filesize and download time by creating a "blobless clone".
   You can learn more about these [here](https://gist.github.com/leereilly/1f4ea46a01618b6e34ead76f75d0784b).
   ```

   ```bash
   git clone --filter=blob:none https://github.com/WordPress/openverse.git # or your fork
   cd openverse/
   ```

   If you followed the general setup guide and installed
   [GitHub CLI](/general/general_setup.md#github-cli), you can clone more simply
   using the `gh` command.

   ```bash
   gh repo clone WordPress/openverse -- --filter=blob:none  # or your fork
   cd openverse/
   ```

3. Install all dependencies. This step installs dependencies for the frontend,
   the documentation and the automations (both Node.js and Python) but won't
   install API or ingestion server dependencies because they are meant to run
   using Docker containers.

   ```bash
   just install
   ```

   To be more specific with your install, you can run either of the following.

   ```bash
   just node-install # only frontend and Node.js automations
   just py-install # only documentation and Python automations
   ```

4. Spin up and orchestrate all Docker services.

   ```bash
   just up
   ```

   The `up` recipe orchestrates the following services: `cache`, `db`,
   `upstream_db`, `es`, `indexer_worker`, `ingestion_server`, `web`, `proxy`,
   `webserver`, `scheduler`, `s3`, `plausible-ch`, `plausible-db` and
   `plausible`.

   The `up` recipe also prints out services that have ports exposed to the host
   (this can also be seen by running `just ps`):

   ```
   ================================================================================
                                    Service Ports
   ================================================================================
   webserver (catalog):
   -  http://0.0.0.0:9090 (→ 8080)
   ingestion_server (ingestion_server):
   -  http://0.0.0.0:50281 (→ 8001)
   plausible (plausible/analytics):
   -  http://0.0.0.0:50288 (→ 8000)
   web (api):
   -  http://0.0.0.0:50280 (→ 8000)
   -  http://0.0.0.0:50230 (→ 3000)
   s3 (minio/minio):
   -  http://0.0.0.0:5010 (→ 5000)
   -  http://0.0.0.0:5011 (→ 5001)
   db (postgres):
   -  http://0.0.0.0:50254 (→ 5432)
   es (docker.elastic.co/elasticsearch/elasticsearch):
   -  http://0.0.0.0:50292 (→ 9200)
   cache (redis):
   -  http://0.0.0.0:50263 (→ 6379)
   ================================================================================
   ```

   For example, you can access the following endpoints:

   - the list of ingestion jobs on
     [http://localhost:50281/task](http://localhost:50281/task)
   - the API documentation on [http://localhost:50280](http://localhost:50280)
   - the Plausible UI on [http://localhost:50288](http://localhost:50288)

5. Load the sample data. This step can take a few minutes to complete.

   ```bash
   just init
   ```

   ````{admonition} Troubleshooting
   If this step fails, cleaning up and restarting usually fixes it.

   ```bash
   just down -v
   just api/init
   ```
   ````

6. With the data loaded, the API can now return JSON responses to your HTTP
   requests.

   ```bash
   just api/stats
   just _curl-get "images/stats/" http://localhost:50280
   curl "http://localhost:50280/v1/images/stats/"
   [{"source_name":"flickr","display_name":"Flickr","source_url":"https://www.flickr.com","logo_url":null,"media_count":2500},{"source_name":"stocksnap","display_name":"StockSnap","source_url":"https://stocksnap.io","logo_url":null,"media_count":2500}]%
   ```

   ````{tip}
   [`jq`](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) is a tool for parsing and manipulating
   JSON data. If you have `jq` installed, you can pipe the response to it and
   transform it.

   ```bash
   just api/stats | jq '.[0]'
   {
     "source_name": "flickr",
     "display_name": "Flickr",
     "source_url": "https://www.flickr.com",
     "logo_url": null,
     "media_count": 2500
   }

   just api/stats 'audio' | jq '[.[] | .source_name]'
   [
     "freesound",
     "jamendo",
     "wikimedia_audio"
   ]
   ```

   `jq` is great, we recommend you
   [download](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download/) it.
   ````

7. To bring up the frontend, we have another `just` recipe. We have `just`
   recipes for almost everything.

   ```bash
   env API_URL="http://localhost:50280" just frontend/run dev
   ```

   Now you should be able to access the following endpoints:

   - the Openverse search engine frontend on
     [http://localhost:8443](http://localhost:8443)

## Shutting down

1. You can <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd> to terminate the frontend process.

2. For services running inside Docker, like the API, ingestion server and
   Plausible, use another `just` recipe to bring them down.

   ```bash
   just down
   ```

   ````{tip}
   If you include the `-v` flag, all Docker volumes (including their data) will
   be deleted too, which is useful in case you want a fresh start.

   ```bash
   just down -v
   ```
   ````
