documentation/general/contribution/becoming_a_committer.md, before:

# Becoming a Committer

```{note}
This document and the intention behind it are based laregly on Apache Airflow's
[policy for committers](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/main/COMMITTERS.rst).
```

Openverse as an open source project is supported and sustained by those who
contribute to it. On WordPress.org profiles, there are only two
[Team Profile Badges](https://make.wordpress.org/openverse/handbook/team-profile-badges/):
one for
[contributors](https://make.wordpress.org/openverse/handbook/team-profile-badges/#openverse-contributor-badge)
and one for
[team members or, more commonly, maintainers](https://make.wordpress.org/openverse/handbook/team-profile-badges/#openverse-team-badge)
(see this page for a
[list of current maintainers](/general/contribution/current_maintainers.md)).
There exists a third category of contributors between those who have made the
requisite contributions to earn the initial badge and those who maintain the
project: **Openverse Committers**.

There are no strict guidelines/requirements for becoming a committer. Candidates
for becoming committers are typically people that are active contributors and
community members and have made numerous or consistent contributions to the
project in any of the
[forms listed on our contribution guide](/general/contributing.md). Once one or
several maintainers feel these contributions have made a significant impact,
that contributor may be asked to become a committer.

## Committer benefits

While there is no strict time or engagement requirement for becoming a
committer, the role of committer comes with a few benefits:

- Granted write access to the repository (i.e. the ability to make and push
  branches on the primary fork, merge code, etc.)
- Self-assign issues as desired (rather than asking to be assigned)
- Perform review for open pull requests

```{tip}
Interested in becoming a committer? Check out the [contributing guide](/general/contributing.md)
or reach out to [one of the maintainers](/general/contribution/current_maintainers.md) to
see how you can begin contributing to the project.
```

Commit message:

Add a link to the committer announcements in the committer docs (#4435)
* Add a link to the committer announcements in the committer docs

* Update wording

Co-authored-by: zack <6351754+zackkrida@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: zack <6351754+zackkrida@users.noreply.github.com>

documentation/general/contribution/becoming_a_committer.md, after:

# Becoming a Committer

```{note}
This document and the intention behind it are based laregly on Apache Airflow's
[policy for committers](https://github.com/apache/airflow/blob/main/COMMITTERS.rst).
```

Openverse as an open source project is supported and sustained by those who
contribute to it. On WordPress.org profiles, there are only two
[Team Profile Badges](https://make.wordpress.org/openverse/handbook/team-profile-badges/):
one for
[contributors](https://make.wordpress.org/openverse/handbook/team-profile-badges/#openverse-contributor-badge)
and one for
[team members or, more commonly, maintainers](https://make.wordpress.org/openverse/handbook/team-profile-badges/#openverse-team-badge)
(see this page for a
[list of current maintainers](/general/contribution/current_maintainers.md)).
There exists a third category of contributors between those who have made the
requisite contributions to earn the initial badge and those who maintain the
project: **Openverse Committers**.

There are no strict guidelines/requirements for becoming a committer. Candidates
for becoming committers are typically people that are active contributors and
community members and have made numerous or consistent contributions to the
project in any of the
[forms listed on our contribution guide](/general/contributing.md). Once one or
several maintainers feel these contributions have made a significant impact,
that contributor may be asked to become a committer.

## Committer benefits

While there is no strict time or engagement requirement for becoming a
committer, the role of committer comes with a few benefits:

- Granted write access to the repository (i.e. the ability to make and push
  branches on the primary fork, merge code, etc.)
- Self-assign issues as desired (rather than asking to be assigned)
- Perform review for open pull requests

Each new committer also receives a
[welcome and announcement post on our Make WP blog](https://make.wordpress.org/openverse/tag/openverse-committers/).

```{tip}
Interested in becoming a committer? Check out the [contributing guide](/general/contributing.md)
or reach out to [one of the maintainers](/general/contribution/current_maintainers.md) to
see how you can begin contributing to the project.
```
