# Internationalization

The frontend uses Nuxt's [i18n module](https://i18n.nuxtjs.org/) to support
[internationalization](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/I18N),
enabling localization of the user interface.

WordPress uses GlotPress for managing translations, which is built on top of the
[`gettext` standard](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/). On the other hand,
Nuxt (and most JS-based i18n libraries) use
[JSON](https://kazupon.github.io/vue-i18n/guide/formatting.html) for managing
translations. This disconnect means that Openverse translations must convert
from JSON to POT and back again. Hence, there is quite a bit of scaffolding
involved.

## Upload pipeline

This pipeline deals with how translations strings are extracted from the
frontend application and provided to GlotPress for translation.

### Steps

- Create a POT file from the `en.json5` file.

  **Script:** `i18n:generate-pot`

- Upload this
  [POT file](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/blob/translations/openverse.pot)
  to a fixed URL. Currently, the file is hosted in the `translations` branch of
  the [WordPress/openverse](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse) repo.

- GlotPress presents the strings, fuzzy translations and other helpful context
  to translators in a web UI to help them provide a translation.

## Download pipeline

This pipeline deals with how translations are retrieved from GlotPress,
processed and loaded into Nuxt via the Nuxt i18n module. The main entry point,
`i18n/scripts/setup.mjs`, orchestrates the entire process based on the command
line arguments. There are three main modes of operation:

- for production, it can download translations from GlotPress, parse the
  locales, and update the Vue i18n plugin configuration.
- for local development, it can convert `en.json5` to JSON format used by the
  Nuxt app, and save the empty `valid-locales.json` file to be used by the Nuxt
  app.
- for testing, it can copy the test locale metadata, and test translations to
  the main `i18n/locales` folder.

### Production Steps

- Download all translations from GlotPress as NGX JSON files - flat json files.

  This script downloads all available translations in bulk as a ZIP file and
  then extracts JSON files from the ZIP file. This prevents excessive calls to
  GlotPress, which can be throttled and cause some locales to be missed.

  **Script:** `i18n/scripts/translations.mjs`

- Parse and extract the list of all locales from GlotPress's PHP source code.
  Then narrow down the list to locales available in the WP GlotPress instance
  and calculate their coverage percentage from the number of keys in the
  translation and the number of keys in the main `en.json5` file. After that,
  separate the locale metadata into two groups based on the JSON files emitted
  by the previous step.

  - **translated:** JSON file is present with mappings, written to
    `valid-locales.json`.
  - (only if --verbose flag is on) **untranslated:** JSON file is present but
    empty, written to `untranslated-locales.json`.

- Pass the fallback locale mappings to the underlying Vue i18n plugin. This is
  configured in the plugin configuration file,
  `frontend/src/plugins/vue-i18n.ts`.

## Test locales

Three locales are maintained in the code base (as opposed to downloaded from
GlotPress) for use in testing, alongside the default English locale. These
locales are **not** meant to be representative of actual final translations.
They are merely used to approximate length and language features that help
identify potential layout issues in the application.

The following languages are used:

- Arabic (`ar`)
- Russian (`ru`)
- Spanish (`es`)

The JSON files for these test locales are located in `frontend/test/locales`.

In the past, Openverse maintainers updated these locales by hand when new
strings were introduced or changed. That is no longer necessary. Instead, use
the `generate_test_locales` utility, which relies on Argos Translate to generate
new testing translations on your local machine. It only translates strings for
keys that are not already present in the test locales. This means you can freely
make manual changes to the generated strings if you feel there is a better way
to represent features of a particular string in the test locale languages (for
example, if you speak any of these languages and happen to know a generated
translation is badly inaccurate).

To use the script:

```shell
# Install python dependencies
ov just utilities/generate_test_locales/install

# Run the script
ov just utilities/generate_test_locales/run
```

The script caches Argos translation packages on your local machine. The first
time you run the script, it will take a little longer while it updates the
package repository and downloads the necessary translation models. Subsequent
runs will start much faster, unless there are updates to the language packages,
in which case they will be downloaded.

Due to the nature of how the script traverses the locales, some runs may reorder
keys. The order of keys in the JSON file is meaningless, but can create noise in
diffs. If it is too noisy for a particular change, you can generate a patch of
just the new or changed strings, revert the overall changes, and then apply the
patch of new strings (either manually or using git and then resolving
conflicts).
