documentation/frontend/guides/quickstart.md, before:

# Quickstart guide

This is the quick start guide for setting up and running the frontend locally.

## Prerequisites

Refer to the [general setup guide](/general/general_setup.md) for setting up the
prerequisites. Refer to the 'Frontend' column in the
[requirement matrix](/general/general_setup.md#requirement-matrix) to know what
you need to run this.

## Starting up

1. Ensure you download, install and set up all prerequisites. Ensure that the
   Docker daemon is running.

2. Clone the repository to your computer. Then switch to the cloned directory.
   If you're planning to contribute, fork the repo and clone your fork instead.

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/WordPress/openverse.git # or your fork
   cd openverse/
   ```

   If you followed the general setup guide and installed
   [GitHub CLI](/general/general_setup.md#github-cli), you can clone more simply
   using the `gh` command.

   ```bash
   gh repo clone WordPress/openverse # or your fork
   cd openverse/
   ```

3. Install only the Node.js dependencies. You do not need to install any Python
   dependencies to run the frontend.

   ```bash
   just node-install
   ```

4. To bring up the frontend, we have another `just` recipe. We have `just`
   recipes for almost everything.

   ```bash
   just frontend/run dev
   ```

   If you want your frontend to use a different API instance, you can set the
   `API_URL` environment variable to point to that instance. If you had the
   [API running locally](/api/guides/quickstart.md), you can do the following to
   use the local API with the frontend.

   ```bash
   env API_URL="http://localhost:50280" just frontend/run dev
   ```

   Now you should be able to access the following endpoints:

   - the Openverse search engine frontend on
     [http://localhost:8443](http://localhost:8443)

## Shutting down

You can press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd> to terminate the frontend process.

Commit message:

Update docs to reccommend blobless cloning strategy

documentation/frontend/guides/quickstart.md, after:

# Quickstart guide

This is the quick start guide for setting up and running the frontend locally.

## Prerequisites

Refer to the [general setup guide](/general/general_setup.md) for setting up the
prerequisites. Refer to the 'Frontend' column in the
[requirement matrix](/general/general_setup.md#requirement-matrix) to know what
you need to run this.

## Starting up

1. Ensure you download, install and set up all prerequisites. Ensure that the
   Docker daemon is running.

2. Clone the repository to your computer. Then switch to the cloned directory.
   If you're planning to contribute, fork the repo and clone your fork instead.

   ```{note}
   We recommend cloning with the `--filter=blob:none` flag as it dramatically
   reduces the filesize and download time by creating a "blobless clone".
   You can learn more about these [here](https://gist.github.com/leereilly/1f4ea46a01618b6e34ead76f75d0784b).
   ```

   ```bash
   git clone --filter=blob:none https://github.com/WordPress/openverse.git # or your fork
   cd openverse/
   ```

   If you followed the general setup guide and installed
   [GitHub CLI](/general/general_setup.md#github-cli), you can clone more simply
   using the `gh` command.

   ```bash
   gh repo clone WordPress/openverse -- --filter=blob:none  # or your fork
   cd openverse/
   ```

3. Install only the Node.js dependencies. You do not need to install any Python
   dependencies to run the frontend.

   ```bash
   just node-install
   ```

4. To bring up the frontend, we have another `just` recipe. We have `just`
   recipes for almost everything.

   ```bash
   just frontend/run dev
   ```

   If you want your frontend to use a different API instance, you can set the
   `API_URL` environment variable to point to that instance. If you had the
   [API running locally](/api/guides/quickstart.md), you can do the following to
   use the local API with the frontend.

   ```bash
   env API_URL="http://localhost:50280" just frontend/run dev
   ```

   Now you should be able to access the following endpoints:

   - the Openverse search engine frontend on
     [http://localhost:8443](http://localhost:8443)

## Shutting down

You can press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd> to terminate the frontend process.
