documentation/frontend/guides/test.md, before:

# Running frontend tests

Once you've made some changes to the codebase, it is important to run tests.
Openverse uses unit tests, Playwright tests for end-to-end, and visual
regression testing of the app and Storybook components. This guide will help you
run the tests. To learn more about how to test PRs, read the
[testing guidelines](/frontend/reference/testing_guidelines.md). To learn more
about the Playwright tests, read
[this guide](/frontend/reference/playwright_tests.md). To learn more about the
Storybook visual regression tests, read
[this guide](/frontend/reference/storybook_tests.md).

## Steps

1. Ensure you've gone through the
   [quickstart guide](/frontend/guides/quickstart.md).

2. Run unit tests for the frontend.

   ```console
   $ just frontend/run test:unit
   ```

   ````{note}
   Unit tests are automatically run by pre-commit before Git push, if you've set
   up pre-commit's Git hooks by running the following command.

   ```console
   $ just precommit
   ```

   ````

3. Run the Playwright tests. This will run both the end-to-end tests and the app
   visual regression tests.

   ```console
   $ just frontend/run test:playwright
   ```

4. Run the Storybook visual regression tests.

   ```console
   $ just frontend/run test:storybook
   ```

## Updating snapshots

If you've made changes to the frontend that require updating snapshots, you can
run the playwright tests with the `-u` flag. For example, this will update the
snapshots for the app visual regression tests:

```console
$ just frontend/run test:playwright visual-regression -u
```

Commit message:

Add storybook snapshot update command to testing documentation

documentation/frontend/guides/test.md, after:

# Running frontend tests

Once you've made some changes to the codebase, it is important to run tests.
Openverse uses unit tests, Playwright tests for end-to-end, and visual
regression testing of the app and Storybook components. This guide will help you
run the tests. To learn more about how to test PRs, read the
[testing guidelines](/frontend/reference/testing_guidelines.md). To learn more
about the Playwright tests, read
[this guide](/frontend/reference/playwright_tests.md). To learn more about the
Storybook visual regression tests, read
[this guide](/frontend/reference/storybook_tests.md).

## Steps

1. Ensure you've gone through the
   [quickstart guide](/frontend/guides/quickstart.md).

2. Run unit tests for the frontend.

   ```console
   $ just frontend/run test:unit
   ```

   ````{note}
   Unit tests are automatically run by pre-commit before Git push, if you've set
   up pre-commit's Git hooks by running the following command.

   ```console
   $ just precommit
   ```

   ````

3. Run the Playwright tests. This will run both the end-to-end tests and the app
   visual regression tests.

   ```console
   $ just frontend/run test:playwright
   ```

4. Run the Storybook visual regression tests.

   ```console
   $ just frontend/run test:storybook
   ```

## Updating snapshots

If you've made changes to the frontend that require updating snapshots, you can
run both the playwright and storybook tests with the `-u` flag. For example,
this will update the snapshots for the app visual regression tests:

```console
$ just frontend/run test:playwright visual-regression -u
```

This will similarly update the storybook snapshots:

```console
$ just frontend/run test:storybook -u
```
