documentation/index.md, before:

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/WordPress/openverse/main/documentation/meta/brand/banner.svg" width="100%" alt="Openverse"/>

[Openverse](https://openverse.org) is a search engine for openly licensed media.

# Documentation

To setup your computer and install pre-requisites for developing Openverse,
refer to the [general setup guide](./general/general_setup.md). To run the
Openverse stack locally on your computer, refer to the
[quickstart guide](./general/quickstart.md).

```{note}
This documentation is for developers who are building Openverse. If you want to
use the Openverse API, you should instead refer to the
[API consumer documentation](https://api.openverse.org/).
```

# Related documentation

<!-- These use HTML anchors because Sphinx treats them as internal references without scheme. -->

- <a href="./storybook">Storybook</a> (UI components)

# Table of contents

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2
:glob:

*/index
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1

terms_of_service
```

```{toctree}
:caption: External links
:hidden:

Openverse <https://openverse.org>
GitHub <https://github.com/WordPress/openverse>
```

Commit message:

Expand `ov` documentation and replace environment setup docs with `ov` instructions (#4567)
* Fix broken returns in stdout/err

* Greatly expand built-in `ov` documentation

* Revert "Fix broken returns in stdout/err"

This reverts commit 3210124a486800104022267d91ad9a1ae32a7545.

* Do not provision docker tty when in a pipeline

* Update documentation for ov

Do not use a relative path. While it might be generally more consistent, it is much more cumbersome, and would require stating "from the repo root" each time to be accurate

* Fix broken links

* Replace references to old quickstart guide

* Explain blobless clone

* Update documentation/api/guides/quickstart.md

Co-authored-by: zack <6351754+zackkrida@users.noreply.github.com>

* Reword for clarity

* Fix incorrect or muddied usages of "dependent"

* Update link to non-existent prod subdomain

* Add `ov doctor`

---------

Co-authored-by: Krystle Salazar <krystle.salazar@automattic.com>
Co-authored-by: zack <6351754+zackkrida@users.noreply.github.com>

documentation/index.md, after:

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/WordPress/openverse/main/documentation/meta/brand/banner.svg" width="100%" alt="Openverse"/>

[Openverse](https://openverse.org) is a search engine for openly licensed media.

# Documentation

Refer to the [general setup guide](./general/general_setup.md) to get started
setting up your computer for Openverse development.

```{note}
This documentation is for developers who are building Openverse. If you want to
use the Openverse API, you should instead refer to the
[API consumer documentation](https://api.openverse.org/).
```

# Related documentation

<!-- These use HTML anchors because Sphinx treats them as internal references without scheme. -->

- <a href="./storybook">Storybook</a> (UI components)

# Table of contents

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2
:glob:

*/index
```

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 1

terms_of_service
```

```{toctree}
:caption: External links
:hidden:

Openverse <https://openverse.org>
GitHub <https://github.com/WordPress/openverse>
```
