documentation/terms_of_service.md, before:

# Openverse Terms of Service

_Effective as of 5 May 2022_

## 1. Your Agreement to the Terms

Thank you for using the Openverse application programming interface ("API"),
catalog, and/or website (hereafter cumulatively referred to as "Openverse"). BY
USING OPENVERSE, YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ, UNDERSTOOD, AND AGREED TO
BE BOUND BY THESE TERMS OF USE (hereafter "Terms"). By using Openverse, you also
represent that you have the legal authority to accept the Terms on behalf of
yourself and any party you represent in connection with your use of Openverse.
If you do not agree to the Terms, you are not authorized to use Openverse.

## 2. Licensed Uses and Restrictions

In connection with your use of Openverse:

- You must adhere to all rate limits, registration requirements, and comply with
  all requirements in Openverse documentation;
- You must not scrape the content in the Openverse catalog;
- You must not use multiple machines to circumvent rate limits or otherwise take
  measures to bypass our technical or security measures;
- You must not operate in a way that negatively affects other users of Openverse
  or impedes the WordPress Foundation's ability to provide its services;
- You must respect and comply with the terms and conditions applicable to the
  content and metadata accessible through Openverse, including by providing
  proper attribution to [CC-licensed](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/)
  works and respecting the terms and conditions of platforms hosting CC-licensed
  works.
- You must not, and any products you develop must not, encourage others to
  violate any laws, regulations, or rights of any other person or entity,
  including intellectual property rights.

## 3. Content and Data Available in the Catalog

Openverse aggregates metadata about openly licensed content hosted on websites
managed by third parties. Openverse does not own or control the content or data
made available through the API or shared on the website, and does not verify its
licensing status or make any representations or warranties about the content or
data whatsoever. You are responsible for independently verifying whether you
have the right to use the content and data and what terms and conditions apply
to your use.

## 4. Openverse API Trademark Use

If you develop an application or other product or service using the Openverse
API, you must prominently indicate that it was made using Openverse but is not
endorsed or certified by Openverse. You must comply with the
[WordPress Foundation Trademark Policy](https://wordpressfoundation.org/trademark-policy/)
for all use of the Openverse/WordPress logos and other trademarks.

## 5. Fees

To help ensure the sustainability of the Openverse project, Openverse reserves
the right to charge fees for commercial uses of Openverse and/or for heavy usage
that places more of a burden on the financial supporters of the WordPress
Foundation and the maintainers of its systems.

## 6. Changes to the Terms

Openverse is actively developing its product vision and strategy and may limit
access to, and/or change the Terms that apply to Openverse at any time as plans
take shape. If we make changes that we feel are material, we will make
reasonable efforts to update developers who we know are actively using the
Openverse API. Your continued use of Openverse after new and/or revised Terms
are effective indications that you have read, understood, and agreed to those
terms.

## 7. Termination

Openverse maintainers may modify, suspend, or terminate the operation of, or
access to, Openverse at any time for any reason. Additionally, your individual
access to, and use of, Openverse may be terminated by Openverse maintainers at
any time and for any reason.

Commit message:

Add a link to the GitHub file history on the Terms of Service (#3732)

documentation/terms_of_service.md, after:

# Openverse Terms of Service

```{note}
_Effective as of 5 May 2022_
```

```{admonition} Change history
[View the full set of changes for this file here](https://github.com/WordPress/openverse/commits/main/documentation/terms_of_service.md).
```

## 1. Your Agreement to the Terms

Thank you for using the Openverse application programming interface ("API"),
catalog, and/or website (hereafter cumulatively referred to as "Openverse"). BY
USING OPENVERSE, YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ, UNDERSTOOD, AND AGREED TO
BE BOUND BY THESE TERMS OF USE (hereafter "Terms"). By using Openverse, you also
represent that you have the legal authority to accept the Terms on behalf of
yourself and any party you represent in connection with your use of Openverse.
If you do not agree to the Terms, you are not authorized to use Openverse.

## 2. Licensed Uses and Restrictions

In connection with your use of Openverse:

- You must adhere to all rate limits, registration requirements, and comply with
  all requirements in Openverse documentation;
- You must not scrape the content in the Openverse catalog;
- You must not use multiple machines to circumvent rate limits or otherwise take
  measures to bypass our technical or security measures;
- You must not operate in a way that negatively affects other users of Openverse
  or impedes the WordPress Foundation's ability to provide its services;
- You must respect and comply with the terms and conditions applicable to the
  content and metadata accessible through Openverse, including by providing
  proper attribution to [CC-licensed](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/)
  works and respecting the terms and conditions of platforms hosting CC-licensed
  works.
- You must not, and any products you develop must not, encourage others to
  violate any laws, regulations, or rights of any other person or entity,
  including intellectual property rights.

## 3. Content and Data Available in the Catalog

Openverse aggregates metadata about openly licensed content hosted on websites
managed by third parties. Openverse does not own or control the content or data
made available through the API or shared on the website, and does not verify its
licensing status or make any representations or warranties about the content or
data whatsoever. You are responsible for independently verifying whether you
have the right to use the content and data and what terms and conditions apply
to your use.

## 4. Openverse API Trademark Use

If you develop an application or other product or service using the Openverse
API, you must prominently indicate that it was made using Openverse but is not
endorsed or certified by Openverse. You must comply with the
[WordPress Foundation Trademark Policy](https://wordpressfoundation.org/trademark-policy/)
for all use of the Openverse/WordPress logos and other trademarks.

## 5. Fees

To help ensure the sustainability of the Openverse project, Openverse reserves
the right to charge fees for commercial uses of Openverse and/or for heavy usage
that places more of a burden on the financial supporters of the WordPress
Foundation and the maintainers of its systems.

## 6. Changes to the Terms

Openverse is actively developing its product vision and strategy and may limit
access to, and/or change the Terms that apply to Openverse at any time as plans
take shape. If we make changes that we feel are material, we will make
reasonable efforts to update developers who we know are actively using the
Openverse API. Your continued use of Openverse after new and/or revised Terms
are effective indications that you have read, understood, and agreed to those
terms.

## 7. Termination

Openverse maintainers may modify, suspend, or terminate the operation of, or
access to, Openverse at any time for any reason. Additionally, your individual
access to, and use of, Openverse may be terminated by Openverse maintainers at
any time and for any reason.
